So, the first one we will look
at is the amplitude domain.
It's called Log Companding.
We have actually seen this codec before
mew law in North America, A law in Europe.
And this is the 64 kilobits
codec that was used and
digital telephoning.
So, if you consider the probability
distribution function of speech signals,
speech samples,
you will find that a lot more samples
have values very closer to
zero than very large values.
So, the PDF is very skewed
Picky distribution.
It is closer to gamma distribution,
but a Laplacian distribution
is often used as a good
engineering approximation.
So, what can we do, once we know
this really good useful insight?
If the signal was random we have to use
same number of birds for each sample.
But now that we know more and
more samples are closer to zero.
And that's really where
the information is.
We use very, very fine quantization for
signals near zero.
And we can afford to have little bit
error for very, very large values
as you go further out to
peak to peak radiation.
So, this idea is actually what
is used in Log Companding.
The G.711 u-Law uses
a logarithmic equation.
Between the input and output mapping.
For a given sample XFN the output
is a function of log of XFN
shown in this equation.
So, we treat positive portions of x(n) and
the negative portions of x(n)
independently using the sine operator and
the value of for the normalization is 255.
And these numbers have been picked
by extensive experimentation at
labs looking at the speech
distributions for various
the A-law is similar with a slightly
different normalization value
and it does not include
zero In the output.
And the wise quality is same
in pretty much both of them.
So, both codecs take about 13 or 14 bit
samples and generate 8 bits per sample.
So, 8 kilohertz per sampling,
as we have seen before,
we have the 64 kilobits For
second data rate.
So, if I show you this picture,
you will appreciate the operation
of this codec a lot more easily.
X axis is the input and y axis is
the output and as you go to higher and
higher values of y,
the x looks more plateaued so
you're losing More coarse quantization.
And it turns out that the ear is very,
very forgiving to this kind of calling.